The virus is transmitted mainly through the respiratory route after an infected person breathes, talks, coughs, sneezes or sings. Infections occur when people inhale contaminated droplets or small airborne particles. The risk of infection is highest when people ae in close proximity but can occur over longer distances, particularly indoors and in poor ventilation. It also can spread if infectious respiratory fluids, such as from coughing, land on people's eyes nose or mouth. Rarely, contaminated surfaces or objects may transmit the virus. People remain contagious for up to 20 days, and can spread the virus even if they do not develop any symptoms.

The closer people interact, and the longer they interact, the more likely they are to transmit COVID-19. Closer distances predominantly involve short range airborne transmission, but may involve infectious respiratory fluids, whereas longer distances only involve aerosols. Airborne transmission is able to particularly occur indoors, in locations that are poorly ventilated or where activities lead to increased exhalation (such as restaurants, choirs, gyms, nightclubs, offices, and religious venues). In those conditions small particles can remain suspended in the air for minutes to hours. In healthcare settings, aerosol-generating medical procedures performed on COVID-19 patients can lead to airborne transmission.

The number of people generally infected by one infected person varies; with only 10 to 20% of people responsible for the diseases spread. However, in September 2020 it was estimated that one infected person will, as a crude average, infect between two and three other people. This is more infectious than influenza, but less so than measles. It often spreads in clusters, where infections can be traced back to an index case or geographical location. There is a major role of "super-spreading events", where many people are infected by one person. A person who is infected can transmit the virus to others up to two days before they themselves show symptoms, and even if symptoms never appear.[108] People remain infectious 
